
# Welcome to the Crackling-AWS project's AWS CDK

The `cdk.json` file tells the CDK Toolkit how to execute your app.

This project is set up like a standard Python project.  The initialization
process also creates a virtualenv within this project, stored under the `.venv`
directory.  To create the virtualenv it assumes that there is a `python3`
(or `python` for Windows) executable in your path with access to the `venv`
package. If for any reason the automatic creation of the virtualenv fails,
you can create the virtualenv manually.

To manually create a virtualenv on MacOS and Linux:

```
$ python3 -m venv .venv
```

After the init process completes and the virtualenv is created, you can use the following
step to activate your virtualenv.

```
$ source .venv/bin/activate
```

If you are a Windows platform, you would activate the virtualenv like this:

```
% .venv\Scripts\activate.bat
```

Once the virtualenv is activated, you can install the required dependencies.

```
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

At this point you can now synthesize the CloudFormation template for this code.

```
$ cdk synth
```

To add additional dependencies, for example other CDK libraries, just add
them to your `setup.py` file and rerun the `pip install -r requirements.txt`
command.

## Useful commands

 * `cdk ls`          list all stacks in the app
 * `cdk synth`       emits the synthesized CloudFormation template
 * `cdk deploy`      deploy this stack to your default AWS account/region
 * `cdk diff`        compare deployed stack with current state
 * `cdk docs`        open CDK documentation


## CracklingStack

The CracklingStack is the main stack and is responsible for deploying the frontend, api endpoints, s3 buckets and all the various lambda functions that are used.

The Crackling-AWS architecture is segmented into lambda functions to calculate results against a genome. These lambda functions will interact with other AWS services such as s3 buckets, dynamo db tables or to sqs queues that allow other lambda functions to be triggered progress through the cloud formation.

Simple Queue Service is used in the formation to trigger the next lambda/s after the first one has finished, sending necessary information from one AWService to the next. Dynamo DB tables and streams are used in a similar way as SQS, to push events from lambda to the next, as well as store data from runs in a database form.

The crackling frontend is saved and deployed into an s3 or Simple Storage Service bucket, as well as another s3 bucket for storage of the genome files downloaded and generated by the stack.

Since the lambda functions need to use external libraries, python packages and files etc which aren't installed to the typical lambda instance, these files are uploaded as *lambda layers* which can then be attached to each lambda as needed at runtime. 

For more information on either the lambda function code or lambda layers, go to the `../modules` or `../layers` directories for additional readme files.
